---
title: Braincells
prev_section: hack-summit.html
next_section: conflict-handling.html
---

h1. {{ site.company_cells }} (or Brainlets)

bq(bb-proposal). Let's read it carefully and agree on the details.
Do we also want to list them carefully and let them have their own economy?
Can there be a {{ site.company_cell }} without economy?
_(bb-who)Morten_

How do bottom-up initiatives get funded? How do you get money to do something without a budget process?

Answer: If you want something that needs funding, form a {{ site.company_cell }}. That is, find others that want the same thing and are willing to pay for it with their own money. {{ site.company_name }} can foot the bill initially.

h2. What is a {{ site.company_cell }}?

A {{ site.company_cell }} is a loosely coupled interest group of {{ site.company_members }} who want to co-fund an initiative. Perfect for situations where we don't really need everyone at {{ site.company_name }} involved.

bq. We used to have a more traditional budget process and debate about things like how much {{ site.company_name }} should spend on what. Lots of spreadsheets, discussions, compromises, and not very effective. After a while we got fed up with the whole idea of a centralized budgeting process and abandoned it in favor of something more like "beyond budgeting":http://www.slideshare.net/Lewitz/bjarte-bogsnes-about-beyond-budgeting-at-ale2011. We decided to just keep the fees as low as possible, give the "office team":office-team.html and "board":board.html full freedom to manage the bank account continuously without any up-front budgeting process. And as for additional projects and expenses: let people group up and spend their money on whatever they want, no need for consensus from all of {{ site.company_name }}. Saves *a lot* of time!

In some cases it does make sense for {{ site.company_name }} as a whole to fund an initiative, for example a redesign of our website. For smaller initiatives the office team or board can just go ahead and do it. For larger initiatives we may go for a "consensus decision":decisions.html at our next "unconference":unconference.html.

But when in doubt (or if in a hurry), go for opt-in and just form a {{ site.company_cell }}. Because it's just so much easier. We may of course decide later this cost should be {{ site.company_name }}-global, and in that case simply close the {{ site.company_cell }}.

h2. Sample {{ site.company_cells }}

(Really Crisplets, since the examples are from Crisp)

* *Supporting Doctors Without Borders.* In late 2014 the world was suffering a major Ebola crisis, and some from Crisp wanted to support "Doctors Without Borders":http://www.msf.org in their heroic battle against the pandemic. Instead of trying to drive consensus for a decision on this, one person formed a Crisplet (one email was all it took: "Let's support Doctors Without Borders, who's in?"). 9 people joined and pooled together a donation of EUR 9,000. Crisp paid the donation, and then invoiced each participant individually. Pooling the donation into a single large payment made it easier to deal with admin overhead and tax issues.
* *Missing People Crisplet*: Similar to the above, this Crisplet provides continuous support to "Missing People":http://missingpeople.se. People can join and leave as they like.
* *Hack summit*: Most of us love "hack summit":hack-summit.html, but again we don't want to force it upon everyone, so by creating a Crisplet we make sure the costs only affect those who are involved.

h2. Benefits of forming a {{ site.company_cell }}

The main benefit to forming a {{ site.company_cell }} is that we reduce the need for centralized decision making, and maximize people's economic freedom.

But why {{ site.company_cells }} at all? Can't people just "huddle up and do it"? True, but the {{ site.company_cell }} model offer some advantages:

* *Transparency* - all {{ site.company_cells }} are listed (at least the long-lived ones)
* *Engagement* - it is easier to get involved if you know what's going on
* *Established form of collaboration* - the initiator and participants of a {{ site.company_cell }} know what it means.
* *Economies of scale* - each {{ site.company_cell }} has a {{ site.company_cell }} Account that is administered by the "office team":office-team.html.
* *Liquidity* - a {{ site.company_cell }} can spend money that it doesn't have (yet). For example, with our donation to Doctors Without Borders, Crisp paid the donation and *then* invoiced each participant. This works because {{ site.company_name }} has a cash buffer (although limited), and because we trust that each participant will pay their part when the time comes.
* *Responsibility* - {{ site.company_cell }} Accounts only appear when there are actual _individuals_ who are prepared to pay. This reduces the risk that {{ site.company_name }} as a whole spends money on stuff that isn't important, or that very few people care about.

h2. What is required of a {{ site.company_cell }}

* A wiki page describing the purpose of the {{ site.company_cell }}, how collaboration is done and who has joined
* A link from the list of {{ site.company_cells }} to the wiki page describing the {{ site.company_cell }}
* All {{ site.company_cells }} are open for any {{ site.company_member }} to join.
* Every new {{ site.company_cell }} is announced via an "OBS-email":email-conventions.html.

h2. Sometimes {{ site.company_cells }} don't have to pay

{{ site.company_cells }} are expected to run at a loss (they are basically cost centers), so each {{ site.company_cell }} Account can be seen as a short-term loan from {{ site.company_name }} to a group of participants. Each participant should expect to receive an invoice from {{ site.company_name }} at some point, to cover their part of the cost.

However, sometimes that doesn't happen. Sometimes {{ site.company_name }} will waive the debt. For example because:
* The {{ site.company_cell }} ended up spending money that clearly was to the benefit of {{ site.company_name }} as a whole, so {{ site.company_name }} will foot the bill.
* The costs were so low that it's not worth the administrative hassle of invoicing all participants.

The second case is very important, because it basically gives the "office team":office-team.html permission to avoid a bunch of micromanagement and administrative overhead. If 6 people get together to form a {{ site.company_cell }} and their costs end up being just SEK 4820 to buy a license for a tool, then we probably won't bother invoicing everyone. Think of it as our "yeah whatever" budget.

By waiving the debt, {{ site.company_name }} can avoid unnecessary administration of costs that are clearly in the common interest, or clearly too small to bother with.

All in all we are really happy with the {{ site.company_cell }} model, because it make it easy for people to collaborate on stuff without a bunch of upfront budgeting or permission-seeking.

