---
title: "How to clone the Bestbrains DNA"
prev_section: brand-building.html
next_section:
---

h1. How to clone the {{ site.company_name }} DNA

The {{ site.company_name }} DNA is "open-source on github":https://github.com/Bestbrains/bestbrains-dna, so you are welcome to copy it and create something similar. The DNA is itself a derivative of the "Crisp Open Source DNA":https://github.com/crispab/crisp-dna. Make sure you check out the original as well, to see if either one serves your purpose better.

h2. Why clone the {{ site.company_name }} DNA?

Perhaps you are an independent consultant and want to start some kind of collaboration with others. You don't want to run it as a traditional consulting company, and yet you don't want to invent a model from scratch. In that case you can start from our model and modify it to fit your needs.

Although we happen to work as IT consultants, there is nothing in our model that is specific to the IT consulting business.

h2. What's the licensing model?

The {{ site.company_name }} DNA is licensed under "Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International":http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/. This means you are welcome to edit the text anyway you wish, even for commercial purposes, as long as you attribute the original text to us, and keep the license, so that others can fork off of your ingenious changes. But go read the license, it is well worth the effort!

h2. How do I ask questions or give feedback?

If you have a question feel free to "File an issue":https://github.com/Bestbrains/bestbrains-dna/issues/new on the bestbrains-dna repo (pick the "question" label to the right). No response guaranteed though.

